hey guys John Trousdale here with power
auto media at SEMA 2013 I'm lucky enough
to be standing next to Gale banks of
banks power now you guys have been known
over the years for a lot of different
things but through the through the years
you've always been engine people that is
correct and we are Tier one injured
people now what exactly does that mean
well we manufacture design manufacture
and supply powertrain from the
intercooler all the way to the tip of
the transfer case to vehicle million
manufacturers building special vehicles
some of them are military programs we've
been doing this since 1976 we've been
manufacturing and selling competition or
hot rod engines since 1958 we first did
a twin turbo small-block in the 60s it's
the most copied turbo layout on the
planet we still manufacture these
engines but they've gone from 700
horsepower to as much as eleven hundred
and fifty horsepower this one is a
budget priced eight hundred horsepower
twin turbo with all the supporting
systems price point on this is about
twenty four nine and that's complete to
the consumer yes complete and and I know
tested so we've made a price reduction
that's huge we design an awful lot of
what's inside the engine as well
and this shiny beauty we call the big
pin 427 crank newly developed by you sir
tell me about this guys that are racing
Duramax v8 diesels are braking crank
shafts so we did something unique in the
automotive aftermarket I don't think
it's ever been done we created our own
bearing size diameter so we made the
pins three millimeters bigger than stock
so we're able to do a billet forged
connecting rod and we're developing a
steel piston the steel piston is
slightly heavier with its wrists penned
in the aluminum piston but incredibly
durable in high temperatures and high
pressures so what we've created if your
drag racing your truck pulling you're
running it in a boat or you just want a
really badass street rod so the message
here is at banks we're engine people
yeah we make a lot of components that go
on the outside or the electrical or
electronic components to run all of this
and we do it because because we're
pushing the state-of-the-art I'm a
futurist I'm all about what's next and I
can't get what's next down at the the
auto parts store so you've got to build
it yourself and we are glad to be here
with you he may be a futurist but he's
also a legend in the industry
Gail thanks again for having us and if
you want to learn some more you can go
to get power calm